Blanco, Jamil Maxi C.    CPE11S1

EXERCISE 1 :
1.) What is Computer?
2.) What are the essential parts of computer?
3.) Who are the notable inventors of hardware and software Cite at leat (5) software developers and (5) hardware developers
4.) Cite your reference/s (APA/IEEE)


ANSWERS:
1.) Computer is a type of significant device that everyone can use freely for any different kinds of purposes. Due to the fact that it can stores, saves and records all your significants data. According to Aparna(2024) A computer is an electronic device
wherein we need to input raw data to be processed with a set of programs to produce desirable output. Rather than that, Computer may offer a wide oppurtunities especially for every users: First, every users might acquire significant knowledge that are
usable for their current and future uses; Second, it is also an alternative communicable devices for every users.

2.) The following important parts of computer are:
   A.) Motherboard - The motherboard is a very significant components that computers have, because all of the parts of the computer are rarely connected to the motherboard. To explain furtherly, if there is no motherboard, there is no computer,
                     whereas the motherboard will serves as a heart of whole components of computer.
   B.) Power Supply - As we can read at the name itself "Power Supply" are also important components in the computer, because it allows the motherboard to work freely as it can. Another thing is that it powers or it delivers the required energy of the computer
   C.) CPU - CPU stands of Central Processing unit that also serves brain to our general parts of computer. It defines that the more value that CPU have the more you have an access to high definition video.
   D.) RAM (Random-access Memory) - To easily understand the concept of RAM, the more the RAM you have,  the more you can access more programs and software, so the reason why some computers are slow in different programs is because they are lack of RAM.
   E.) HDD or Hard Disk Drive - HDD acts as an important role of computer because in here, we can see all data that stored to our computer in short is serves as storage of computer. 

3.) 5 NOTABLE SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS:
  A.) Larry Page - Is an american computer scientest who with sergery brin. both of themcreated the online search engine google.
  B.) Hargaret Hamilton - Is an also ammerican computer scientist that one of the first computer programmer and created the term "Software Engineer"
  C.) Guido Van Rossum - Is an Dutch computer scienctist and also created the phyton programming in 1989.
  D.) 

4.) CITATIONS:
   4.1) Aparna. (2024). What is computer? Definition, Characteristics and Classifications. CareerPower. https://www.careerpower.in/school/computer/what-is-a-computer
   4.2) Huok, D. (2024). 8 Standard Computer Components and What They Do. NEXT IT. https://www.next7it.com/insights/standard-computer-components/
   4.3) Britannica, T. Editors of Encyclopaedia (2024, August 10). Larry Page. Encyclopedia Britannica. https://www.britannica.com/money/Larry-Page
   4.4) Websensa. (2023, February 28). 15 most famous programmers who changed the IT world forever. Websensa. https://www.websensa.com/blog/15-most-famous-programmers-who-changed-the-it-world-forever
